<!--
 Copyright 2020 Google LLC

 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
 compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

        https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License
 is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
 implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the
 License.
-->
# Changelog
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

## [4.2.0] - 2019-11-07
### Changed
- Don't run integration tests by default when running maven commands which invoke the integration
test goal. Must provide flag `-DskipITs=false`.

### Security
- Issue #37: Verify server host key when connecting to agents with SSH.
- Add missing permissions checks for form validation methods.
- Require post for form validation.

## [4.1.1] - 2019-10-31
### Fixed
- Dependency awaitility was marked as a test scoped dependency. Revert this change to be able to use
  it in the provision step.
- Dependency jclouds made use of the guava BaseEncodings class, which is not available when running
  on the Jenkins master server. Replaced with [JSch](http://www.jcraft.com/jsch/).

### Added
- Dependency com.jcraft:jsch:0.1.55 for ssh key generation.

## [4.1.0] - 2019-10-30
### Added
- Onboarded into team CI server
- Flag "-Dit.windows=true" added to run integration tests on windows VMs.

### Changed
- org.jenkinsci.plugins:google-oauth-plugin version changed: 0.9 to 1.0.0
- com.google.cloud.graphite:gcp-client version changed: 0.1.2 to 0.2.0
- com.google.guava:guava version changed: 14.0.1 to 20.0
- com.google.oauth-client:google-oauth-client version changed: 1.24.1 to 1.25.0
- com.google.http-client:google-http-client version changed: 1.24.1 to 1.21.0
- com.google.http-client:google-http-client-jackson2 version changed: 1.24.1 to 1.25.0
- com.google.apis:google-api-services-compute version changed: v1-rev213-1.24.1 to v1-rev214-1.25.0

### Removed
- com.google.api-client:google-api-client direct references removed.

## [4.0.0] - 2019-09-23
### Added
- Completion goal for maven-release-plugin to format the pom file before creating the final commit.
- Dependency com.google.cloud.graphite:gcp-client:0.1.2 as a replacement for included client.
- ClientUtil to handle generating ClientFactory from
[gcp-plugin-core-java](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/gcp-plugin-core-java).
- Ability to ignore the Jenkins level proxy for connecting to agents, `isIgnoreProxy` field.

### Changed
- Snapshot creation is now parallelized. The timeout of 120 seconds is unchanged.
- Parent org.jenkins-ci.plugins:plugin version changed: 3.36 to 3.39
- Jenkins core version changed: 2.107.1 to 2.138.4
- io.jenkins:configuration-as-code version changed: 1.9 to 1.14
- org.jenkins-ci.plugins:google-oauth-plugin version changed: 0.6 to 0.9
- org.jenkins-ci.plugins:ssh-credentials version changed: 1.13 to 1.17
- org.jenkins-ci.plugins:credentials version changed: 2.1.16 to 2.2.0
- com.google.guava version changed: 19.0 to 14.0.1
- org.awaitility:awaitility version changed: 3.0.0 to 3.1.6

### Removed
- com.google.apis:google-api-services-compute - The use of this client is now handled by
gcp-plugin-core-java
- ComputeClient and ClientFactory plus associated tests, migrated to gcp-plugin-core-java.
- StringJsonServiceAccountConfig: Use JsonServiceAccountConfig from the google-oauth-plugin directly
for tests instead.

## [3.4.0] - 2019-07-26
### Added
- PR #129/Issue #124: Add help text and verification text to discourage users from assigning
  multiple executors to a configuration that uses one shot nodes. Also add verification text for
  fewer than 1 executors.
  
### Fixed
- Issue #124: Fixed issue where multiple jobs would be assigned to the same oneshot node. Now only
  one job can be run per node, no matter how many executors are assigned to the node.
- Issue #125: Updated out of date help text to explain the new default behavior introduced in
  release 3.0.1 for the "Remote Location" field.
- Issue #127: Fixed issue where autogenerated ssh keys conflicted with template keys in instance
  metadata. Now ssh keys are merged before being added to the instance metadata when creating the
  instance.

### Changed
- PR #113: Jobs that run on preemptible VMs will be restarted in the event that a preemption event
  occurs.

## [3.3.2] - 2019-06-27
### Fixed
- Issue #106: Fixed regression where users with Legacy VPC networks could not provision instances
  because no subnetworks are available. In the UI, the subnetwork "default" will be chosen when
  there are no subnetworks in the provided network and region.

### Changed
- PR #116: When there are multiple configurations for a cloud, made the selection of the next
  configuration more randomized.

## [3.3.0] - 2019-06-19
### Added
- Issue #117 Added note in help file for node retention time to account for VM instance boot time.

### Fixed
- Issue #106 Fixed bug where it was assumed default subnetwork under default network was also default.
- Issue #114 Fix bug in windows config where it was assumed the windows-related instance configuration was first configuration
under ComputeEngineCloud.
- Made windows configuration in instance configuration non-transient to make it serializable.

### Changed
- Issue #65 Replaced public getters and setters with lombok annotations.
- Issue #104 Moved check Java command after copying agent.jar during instance launch.
- Issue #108 Moved "Use Internal IP?" from Networking section under advanced instance configuration to Launch Configuration section.
- Issue #107 Instance Configurations are chosen in round robin fashion if one instance configuration fails to provision nodes.


## [3.2.0] - 2019-05-16
### Added
- Issue #91: Support for configuring a custom java execution path through the javaExecPath field in
  Instance Configuration.

### Fixed
- Pull #90: For Usage->IAM credentials step 2, include needed permissions and allow copy-paste. 
- Pull #97: Expired slack invite link is now a bitly link.

### Changed
- Issue #100: Populate ssh key in metadata before startup so that it can be referenced in startup
  scripts.

## [3.1.1] - 2019-05-01
### Fixed
- Issue #85: Instance IDs are now properly created.

## [3.1.0] - 2019-04-26
### Added
- Code formatting tools for pom.xml and java source files
- Support for use with Configuration as Code plugin, with test dependencies on configuration-as-code
  version 1.9
- Secret used during integration test can be provided through GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS_FILE environment
  variable which should be a path to the secret file
- Documentation transferred from wiki.jenkins.io and stored in source

### Changed
- Use unique instance IDs for each cloud
- Test classes run in parallel using the concurrency property in pom.xml
- Constructor for InstanceConfiguration now only takes required fields, use builder instead
- Readme links updated to point to Github for issues and pull requests
- Plugin parent pom upgraded to 3.36

### Fixed
- Remote location for agent.jar can now be specified
- The relevant files now all have properly formatted license headers

## [3.0.0] - 2019-03-13
### Fixed
- Removed windows username field from instance configuration; use runAsUser instead. Default user changed to jenkins from Build.
- Cleaned up imports, removed outdated terminology, and fixed type of shell for Windows integration tests.

## [2.0.0] - 2019-02-26
### Added
- One-shot instances feature
- Create snapshot option for one-shot instances

### Changes
- Changed Jenkins version to 2.107.1

### Fixed
- Changed script to build Windows image to accommodate updates in OpenSSH for Windows

## [1.0.9] - 2019-01-30
### Added
- Cleanup of nodes that weren't terminated properly

### Fixed
- Null issue for no vm template selected

## [1.0.8] - 2019-01-14
### Added
- Compute Engine Instance templates feature added

### Changes
- Instance cap based on number of executors, not on number of instances
- Increased the timeout for integration tests

### Fixed
- Labels from instance configuration now properly allocated to instances
- Fixed typo in documentation - license file
- Fixed typo in jelly help file
